---
layout: page
title: Exeter House
alert: Exeter House is located at <a href="https://maps.google.co.uk/maps?q=235+Iffley+Road,+Oxford&hl=en&ll=51.741925,-1.237614&spn=0.007746,0.018325&sll=51.748534,-1.26284&sspn=0.01549,0.03665&oq=235+iffley+road&t=h&hnear=235+Iffley+Rd,+Oxford+OX4+1SQ,+United+Kingdom&z=16">235-239 Iffley Road, Oxford, OX4 1SQ</a>. ☎ <a href="tel:01865245472">01865 245472</a>
alert-type: information
---

Exeter House is Exeter College’s graduate accommodation.  Most
first-year graduate students live here, so it’s a great place to meet
your fellow Exonians in the first place, and to keep bumping into them
for the rest of the year!

Exeter House has plenty to offer apart from its rooms.  Table tennis
and pool are available in the Chapel (not actually a chapel any
more!), as well as an extravagantly lovely grand piano.  There’s a big
TV in the pavilion.  Both the Chapel and the pavilion are common
rooms, and you can use them for what you want, when you want, provided
it’s not too messy and not after 11pm!  If it is messy, we have ample
on-site laundry facilities.

Exeter House is a really sociable place to begin finding your feet as
you begin your graduate studies.  We have plenty of events at the
start of the year for you to meet the other residents, and we don’t
stop there.  I run table tennis tournaments, a weekly film night, a
termly party (which is unashamedly fabulous), and am always open to
suggestions for any events any resident would like to organise!

Last but not least, we welcome anyone and everyone.  There are rooms
for families, mature students, immature students and everyone else.
If you have applied to Exeter and are around Oxford, somebody will be
around to show you Exeter House if you’d like to see it and answer any
questions you may have. See you soon!

Imogen

{:toc}
1. TOC

### Things to know before you arrive

## Where are we?
235 Iffley Road.  It’s not in the centre of town, but the centre is 20-25 minutes away on foot and a bit less than ten minutes on a bike.

## Facilities

Exeter House comprises ten residential blocks and two common rooms,
named the Chapel and the Pavilion. All residents have access to all
buildings, and all MCR members (see below) have access to the common
areas. You will need your Bod card (the swipe card provided to you by
your college) to access all buildings; *don’t leave home without it!*

The ground floor flat of N Block has facilities for the disabled,
including lower kitchen surfaces and hobs, and walk-in showers in two
of the rooms. The Chapel is located above E Block and the Warden’s
Flat, and can be accessed from the door facing N Block. The Chapel
contains two computers and a printer, which can be used by members of
Exeter College, as well as a grand piano, ping-pong table, pool table,
couches, and a chess set.

The Pavilion is the building directly in front of the entrance. It
contains the Hostel Supervisor’s office, pigeon holes (see below), and
a television. Residents are welcome (and encouraged) to use the
Pavilion to socialise and watch TV at any time.

There are two laundry rooms in EH: one at the back of Q Block and one
below N Block. The latter can be accessed via stairs at the far end of
N Block. The machines only accept £1 and 20p coins; a wash cycle costs
£1.40, and drying costs 20p for 13 minutes.  Note that EH is
self-catering, but three meals a day are served at Exeter College,
which are partially subsidised by your battels.  The hall in college
doesn’t serve food outside term time (except lunches by prior
arrangement), so you will probably end up using the kitchen.

## What is the MCR?

‘MCR’ is one of many, many, many bits of Oxford jargon you will pick
up.  It means ‘middle common room’, and means all graduate students.
It also means the common room and kitchen provided for members of the
MCR (i.e. graduates) in college.  Similarly, ‘JCR’ means the
undergraduates, ‘battels’ means your termly bill, ‘proctors’ are the
strong arm of University law, ‘trashing’ is what happens to you at the
end of your exams, and so on.  Don’t worry about it – you’re clever
people, you’ll pick it up.  A good one is ‘College Parent’ – you’ll be
assigned one of these before you arrive.  Someone from the year above,
hopefully who does your subject or one similar, will be in touch with
you over the preceding summer.  Ask them all of your stupid questions
– they probably asked them when they arrived.

## Mobile phones

You effectively have three options:

1. *Pay-as-you-go*, which costs more per minute but requires no bank
account to set up. Buy a SIM card and handset and you’re good to go!
2. *Pay monthly*. You can typically cancel these with one month’s
notice, and they offer better rates than pay-as-you-go. Great if you
leave the country for the summer, or are only here for a year. You
will need a bank account and credit check.
3. *Contract* (typically 18 or 24 months). These offer best deals, and
are the cheapest way to get a smart phone, but require some
commitment, a bank account and credit check.

Shop around for the best deal, and be patient. If you need a phone now
and don’t have a bank account, you can pick up cheap pay-as-you-go
handsets for the short term.

Signal in Oxford is notoriously poor. Vodafone have the best
reputation for good coverage here. Inside many buildings, which
unfortunately includes Exeter House, you will have intermittent or no
reception. Many rooms have reliable ‘hot spots’ in window sills and
the likes. Find yours!  For international calls, there is always
Skype.

## Cars

It’s not a great idea to bring a car as Exeter House does not have
parking facilities.  You can park on some of the surrounding streets,
but everything in Oxford is a cycle or walk away so it’s best to do
without a car if you can.

## Things you will need when you arrive

### Bikes

There are plenty of bike racks in Exeter House, and you probably will
end up with a bike as it’s so convenient.  If you do decide to cycle,
first learn how.  When you can ride your bike, think about your safety
– a helmet is not a legal requirement but is strongly recommended.
Lights are a legal requirement, and the police do spot checks here all
the time.  Get lights.  Lastly, bike theft is common in Oxford, so get
a good lock.  The police give [some good
tips](http://content.met.police.uk/Article/Cycle-Security-Advice/1400005851380/1400005851380)
for bike safety here.

In order to leave your bike at EH or Exeter College, you must register
it at the Porter’s Lodge at Exeter College. They will provide you with
a sticker and number to identify your bike.

There are several bike shops on Cowley Road, 5 mins away from Exeter
House, and they often do package deals on bikes plus helmet, lights
and lock.  They also run ‘buy-back’ schemes, where you buy a bike at
the beginning of the year and return it to them at the end, and
they’ll give you some percentage of the original price back.  This can
be useful if you’re only in Oxford for a year.  Bike shops also often
do repairs.  There is also a Bike Doctor at the University Club, on
Mansfield Rd. near the science campus, on Wednesdays from
10am-4pm. Arrive early. Seriously.

Also, if you’re unused to cycling on the left and especially to
navigating UK roundabouts, be extra careful. Don’t be shy to ask other
MCR members or you college parent to walk you through things or cycle
with you the first time!

### Computing

There are two computers and a printer in the Chapel for use by members
of Exeter College. In order to log on you will need an Exeter College
IT account. You will receive details about this from the College
shortly after the you move in. WiFi (eduroam and OWL networks) should be available in all communal
areas and bedrooms. The IT department can be
contacted at <it-help@exeter.ox.ac.uk>.

### Local facilities

**First, food**. On Iffley Road there is a small Co-op supermarket which
is open till midnight every day.  On Cowley road, there is a sizable
Tesco Metro and a Sainsburys’ local.  If you do have a car or a friend
with a car, there is a gargantuan Tesco just outside the ring road at
the out-of-town end of Cowley Road, if you want to stock up or buy
some very obscure ingredients.  Cowley Road is also home to an Asian
supermarket, a Polish supermarket and other specialist food stores.

**Second, money**.  The nearest ATM is inside the Co-op.

**Third, pubs and grub**.  Our most local pub is just across the road –
the Magdalen Arms.  This is a bit of a gastropub, and great for when
someone is taking you out.  Our local watering-hole is the Rusty Bike
(quieter and cheaper than the Magdalen Arms), although we also have a
soft spot for the Fir Tree on Iffley Road.  There are approximately 85
million other pubs in the Cowley/Iffley area, so there is plenty of
choice.  All these pubs serve food, but if you’re after a restaurant,
Cowley Road is the place to go.  You can get Italian, Chinese,
Japanese, Greek, Indian, Thai and even English food.

Exeter House is very close to the University’s sports facilities on
Jackdaw Lane, off Iffley
Road. <http://www.sport.ox.ac.uk/oxford-university-sports-facilities/sports-facilities>. It
has a swimming pool and gym (currently £30 a year to us) and a weights
gym which you can join additionally. There is also a park and playing
field on Jackdaw Lane.

Every Saturday morning, there is a Farmer’s Market behind Tesco’s off
Cowley Road (<http://www.eastoxfordmarket.org.uk/>).

There is also a branch of G&D’s, Oxford’s local ice-cream company,
which is open until midnight every day. There are many independent
shops on Cowley Road, including Truck, a record shop, and the Ultimate
Picture Palace, an independent cinema.

There are branches of all major banks in the city centre. On Cowley
Road there are branches of NatWest and Lloyds.

### Transport

There are regular bus services into the city and to the rail station
from the bus stop across the road from the Magdalen Arms, next door to
EH. Time tables can be found at the bus shelter, and print copies are
stocked on most buses.

Iffley Road is served by Stagecoach and the Oxford Bus Company bus
numbers 1 and 3, roughly every 7-8 minutes.

An ordered taxi (“private hire”) is less expensive than getting a “big
black” taxi (“hackney cabs”) from a stand. For hackney cabs, there are
several in the centre, by Carfax and Gloucester Green for example. To
get phone numbers for private hire taxi companies, visit
<http://www.dailyinfo.co.uk/oxford/guide/taxi> (this website it worth browsing – it
has a lot of useful information about living in Oxford).

## Things you will pick up as you go along

### Lost cards/keys

If you misplace your Bod card, you’ll have to contact the College
Lodge. They can let you in (they have remote control of the electronic
gate and doors), and can give you a temporary card. Lost Bod cards
cost £10 to replace; contact the College Office at
<college.office@exeter.ox.ac.uk> to arrange this. If you lose your room
key, contact Jim Dobson (weekdays during office hours), Mahima
Mitra (outside of Jim’s office hours), or the College Lodge in
order to be given a replacement key. Contact details can be found at
the end of this document.

### Scouts

Your room will be cleaned weekly, and your kitchen daily, by your
lovely scout. It is not their job to make your bed, tidy your room, or
do your dirty dishes; please help them by keeping your home as clean
and tidy as you can.  You’re grown-ups now.

### Fire alarms

Every Friday at 10.30am there is a fire alarm test. These may be short
or last several minutes; unless you are otherwise notified, there is
no need to evacuate.  If the alarm sounds at other times, please
assemble at the front of EH by the Pavilion. Do not attempt to shut
the alarm off; the Warden or another College representative will sort
it out. Please do not put headphones on and stay in your room.  There
will be a fire drill during term. Be forewarned.

### Etiquette

Please be considerate to your neighbours. After 11pm and before 8am,
the Chapel should be used only for quiet socialising or study; the
piano, ping-pong table, and so on should not be used at these times.

Sound can carry in the flats. Please do not let doors slam at night,
as this can be heard throughout some of the blocks. Similarly, some
kitchens share internal walls with bedrooms; please be quiet in the
kitchens at night.  Remember that Exeter House is home to people with
small children, medics with night shifts and many other people who
would be very grateful if you could avoid keeping them up late at
night.  For this reason, also be a considerate consumer of toast.  4am
fire alarms for your burnt toast after a night out (or even before
rowing) do not make you popular.

No smoking is allowed inside; outside most blocks there are cigarette
bins. If you do smoke, please be considerate of those in ground floor
bedrooms. Be quiet at night, and do not smoke by open windows.

There is no official booking or approval system for parties (like
there is on the main College site), but please let the Warden know if
you're planning a bigger party (10 or more people) either in your
kitchen or in the common rooms 24 hours in advance.  Otherwise, the
rules of conduct contained in the “Red book” apply also to Exeter
House. Familiarise yourself with them, and it’s not a bad idea to
spend a few minutes flicking through the red book in general – there’s
lots of information about who can help you in college and around the
university in general.

### In case of emergency

There are cards telling you what to do in case of fire in every
kitchen and every bedroom.  There are also plenty of fire
extinguishers, but don’t do anything to compromise your own safety.
The UK emergency number is 999 – hopefully you won’t ever need to use
it.

In case of minor troubles around Exeter House (hot water gone off,
lightbulb gone, fusebox tripped, bad hair day…) go to Jim Dobson’s
office in the pavilion.  If it can wait, put it in the maintenance
book (on the desk in the pavilion).  If it’s out of Jim Dobson’s
hours, go to the Warden and then the college lodge.  In some cases –
particularly if the fire alarm goes off and neither the Warden nor Jim
Dobson is around – you may need to contact University Security
Services.  You have to wait 15 minutes or so for them to turn up.

The University offers counselling services and Nightline is available
to talk to through the night.  Exeter College’s nurse holds a surgery
a couple of mornings a week, and can get an appointment for you at the
Beaumont Street doctors’ surgery, or you can book one yourself.

## Contact Details

<table class="name-phone shaded">
<tr>
<td class="name">Warden</td>
<td class="phone"><a href="tel:07510924088">07510924088</td></tr>
<tr>
<td class="name">Jim Dobson (Hostel supervisor)</td>
<td class="phone"><a href="tel:01865245472">01865 245472</a></td></tr>
<tr>
<td class="name">Porters’ Lodge</td>
<td class="phone"><a href="tel:01865279600">01865 279600</a></td></tr>
<tr>
<td class="name">University Security services</td>
<td class="phone"><a href="http://www.admin.ox.ac.uk/ouss/help/">Several numbers</a></td></tr>
<tr>
<td class="name">Counselling services</td>
<td class="phone"><a href="tel:01865270300">01865 270300</a></td></tr>
<tr>
<td class="name">Nightline</td>
<td class="phone"><a href="tel:01865270270">01865 270270</a></td></tr>
<tr>
<td class="name">Surgery (Beaumont St)</td>
<td class="phone"><a href="tel:01865240501">01865 240501</a></td></tr>
</table>
