---
layout: page
title: Startups
---

Some of our alumni have founded startups:

## Swapplr (<http://swapplr.com>)

<img width="100%" src="/images/swapplr.png">

<img width="100%" src="/images/swapplr-team.png">

Swapplr is a swapping and trading app with unique social features tailored
for students, and small-scale independent retailers. It provides these two
target groups an exclusive online platform for buying, selling, swapping
and advertising items; in fact – it is the first such app specifically
targeting these users. 

Yearly, there are on average 20,000 students in each of the 115
universities in the UK. Each of these students, on average, spends over
£1500 on living costs yearly. This equates to over 2 million current UK
students with over £3 billion spent yearly. These expenses include academic
necessities, such as books and kitchenware, as well as more material goods
such as electronic items and fashion. Of course, when students graduate
they no longer require many of these items, all of which then are the
perfect products for new students just starting the university. 

The journey began when Riham Satti and Vivek Doraiswamy – the brains behind
Swapplr – met one late June evening at a bop (oxon-speak for college
party) at Riham's college in Oxford – Green Templeton. The conversation
touched on everything from the weather (as it must in England) to work, to
the latest in gadgets. Vivek, as it turned out, had a friend who wanted to
dispose off his 6 inch TV, but wasn't sure how to go about it without
incurring shipping costs and user fees on trading sites. This lead to Riham
wondering out aloud why there wasn't a platform for swapping products
locally. The idea took hold, and many Skype calls and excited discussions
later, the decision to take the plunge and work towards launching a
student-orientated website for swapping and trading was made! 

Not ones to waste time, the inspired duo pitched the idea to ISIS
Innovation – the technology transfer enterprise owned by the University of
Oxford. Luckily for us, they saw potential in the concept and enrolled us
in the 8 week long ISIS Accelerator Program to help develop it. The company
was named Oxiway; an amalgamation of the words Oxford and way - a nod to
the many brainstorming trips through the walkway to Eagle and Child -
Oxford's famous pub. The product – including the app and the website – was
to be named Swapplr. 

